and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business growth show i'm your host
sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and today i'm joined by
rajiv nathan known as the heavyweight
champion of story rajeev is the founder
of startup hype man he helps come
growing companies
not suck at telling their story so they
stand out to their audience
stand apart from competitors and break
through in their category rajiv a warm
welcome to the show
sir how are you doing thank you for
having me appreciate it appreciate uh
being on the show with you
no worries dude so looking forward to
this one and we're gonna be talking all
about why you need
to reverse engineer yourselves demos
and a lot of people are probably
thinking what the heck what does that
even mean like this sounds really silly
sam but we're gonna
dive into why it works and the nuts and
bolts and how it's gonna help
business owners marketers sales people
like to ramp up their sales damn
demos and drive that all important
revenue
cash in the bank and get those cells
over line but first of all rajiv i want
to know from your side i want to chuck
you in at the deep end as i often do
with guests
what do you think really sucks about
most sales demos that you see run
oh love that question so i guess i'll
start by saying
i think most demos just periods suck
right uh and i think what makes them
suck
is the fact that
they're since they're called a demo
everyone thinks what they're supposed to
do on that call
is give a 30 to 45 minute tour
of the software and and i don't know
who's to blame for this maybe it was
like
oracle or salesforce years ago who
originally like put the button that says
request a demo on their website
and then everyone followed suit from
there but this idea that you're getting
someone on the call to just
beat them over the head with like your
back end dashboard
you know your admin panel for 40 minutes
and show them every
button and all that stuff um it does it
doesn't really work that well even for
like the you know
and i'll always get pushback and be like
well we you know we have really like
technical buyers
and i'm like great on a first
interaction
like they also they still don't need to
see like the most technical aspects
i mean do you maybe get an outlier
person here or there sure but that
shouldn't be your standard
you can always do something that's more
technical later on in the sales process
if it's required but as an upfront all
these demos are really really sucky
because they are
giving you the tour of the software they
are literally giving you a
demonstration right which is the long
hand for demo
and we should we shouldn't be thinking
of the call as that it should it should
be something totally different from that
gotcha so to tee this up a bit and i've
certainly sat on my fair share of
sales demos i mean we get pitch them all
the time here at web choice and
i've had kind of demos where reps
haven't even run discovery calls and
they've
they've even pitched it as something
else for you so they said like we want
to offer your business something so
i'm kind of curious i'm like yeah i'll
take a 15-minute call with you and then
you literally sit through kind of a
slide deck of them just running the a to
z of every feature they've possibly got
on their
their system or their software as a
service ever and you've fallen asleep
five seven minutes into it
um so what what's the answer here where
why is this going wrong does it start
with management is it the sales rep's
fault i mean where where is it all going
wrong
well i think it depends on the stage of
the company right the company's in its
initial growth stage i think
it's probably starting with the founder
or the owner who
built the product or was very close to
the product from day one
so it's almost like they're like so
proud of what they're showing
that they want you to see it all and
then that gets like as they start to
hire people that's the standard practice
that gets taught
and i will say there's a lot of cases
where
when the founder is still doing the
sales like
they're able to get by with that just
purely on like the fact that they have
this zeal and enthusiasm that no one
else does
and that like that ends up like
overtaking everything and pushing
through the sale just pure
like like sweat equity is pushing
through the sale right sure
um because you can't match that level of
excitement that they would have about
their own product but then like
the first higher you have there's no way
they are going to match that same level
of enthusiasm the second higher will be
a little bit less than the first higher
and so on and so forth
so i think i think it starts especially
at a company that's just in that
you know initial stage of growth i think
it starts with that founder that owner
doing it that way and then that becomes
a standard practice from there
um as companies get bigger
what tends to happen is it's really hard
to just like gain alignment on one way
and so everyone just kind of starts
doing their own thing and if
the head of sales or the you know the
different regional heads of sales
aren't regularly meeting with their team
checking in if there isn't a consistent
way to say this is
this is at least like the baseline sure
you're going to have some
personalization based on who you're
talking to but
this is the baseline we're trying to
follow without that and without
regularly reviewing calls yeah you know
using a platform like gong or wingman or
whatever it might be
um you're you're never going to like
have a way to say
well here's here's where we're going
wrong here's what we should improve on
it
gotcha gotcha interesting we can we can
get into that in a bit more depth
now what what's the right way to attack
so we talked about kind of what you
shouldn't do kind of run through
everything your software has to offer
ever because you'd probably be on a
three hour call and
you'd certainly send me to sleep if not
half of your prospects so what's the
correct way to
to attack demos i think the first thing
is to adopt the right
mindset about this and you know every
company that i work with
the first thing that i tell them is like
okay
like here's the here's the mentality we
need to have around this
stop thinking like an entrepreneur if
you're the owner
stop thinking like an account executive
if you're the salesperson
instead start thinking like an
entertainer
why an entertainer well because an
entertainer has one goal in mind
and that is make an emotional connection
with their audience
right they're solely they are 100
focused on
how do i deliver a great experience for
them
right the musician the the the the
artist goes on stage
not saying how do i
look amazing by playing every song i've
ever come up with
right by showing them every feature in
my catalog if you will
but instead they say how do i get them
to like leave this arena feeling
something
buzzing about something and by doing
that
i know i know it's going to reflect well
back on me but i'm just here to make
sure that they leave this arena talking
about something
uh and have a certain energy when they
leave this this stadium
so similarly like that's the like the
mindset everyone needs to adopt out of
the gate and then once we have that
mindset in play
right yep you're going to naturally
start being more audience focused
than you will be product focused or
solution focused
and when you're in that frame of mind
you can run a cleaner demo and this is
where
like the you know like the formatting
really matters
or the call flow if you will really
matters okay and so
when i work with companies what we like
to adopt is a call flow and i will say
there's
a little bit of variant just based on
what's being sold
right and then are they breaking it into
a discovery call
then a demo or is it all one call but
let's just you know generally speaking
you know the
a good flow to follow is
number one you set an agenda yep for the
call
number two you then after you come off
that agenda and you deliver
your company's i call it your point of
view statement
i'll come back to that in a second i'll
get through the whole framework and i'll
come back to what i mean yeah
from there you go into discovery
after discovery you deliver your
company's elevator pitch
you use the elevator pitch to tee up a
presentation deck and you talk about
slides earlier i'll
i'll come to why it works if it's done
well
after you do the slides then depending
on what you sell
you either then go into a brief
brief software demonstration or
the buyers already bought in enough to
where you don't even need to do that
because the slide deck works so well
and you can start talking about next
steps
and if you do the demo then after that
you figure out your next step so
should we break down kind of those
sections yeah yeah let's
let's jump into each one so it sounds
like there's five points to this regift
yeah i'm interested to know kind of how
this maybe maybe this
maybe i'm just really bad at counting
probably the latter we'll break down
those points seven
um and yeah i mean starting with kind of
why why this reverse kind of psychology
why this reverse engineering works and
then talking about kind of what an
agenda would look like so we can so that
our listeners our watchers can put this
into play
yeah so let's talk about that so
the first part of this is setting the
agenda right and this is what i
i do a lot of call reviews as part of my
work um on behalf of teams
and this is one of the biggest things
that i harp on that
most sellers most founders most sales
people are overlooking
um is setting a clean agenda at the
start of the call
basically telling them like hey like
here's like the run of show for today
here's what i'd like
here's how i see today working the
reason you want to do
i just wrote an article about this
actually like the reason you want to do
this it's like it's not just that you're
like giving them like a table of
contents for the call
what you're actually doing is creating
some like
guard rails and mile markers for what's
going to happen over the next 30 minutes
to an hour
and by doing that you're like
you're giving them something to like
latch onto mentally so they don't wander
or get bored
or or they're less likely to do those
things anyway or be like where is this
going
and you not only like create that agenda
for them for that purpose but then you
also do it to gain
mutual buy-in to how the call is
supposed to work today
so you get the agenda then you ask does
that sound okay
by you yeah it does okay great and then
you also say
perfect is there anything that you want
to add to that or anything you want to
make sure we cover today
and then you get their input now they'll
say no no what you said sounds great
i'll be like well
you know there's one thing that's on our
mind we want to make sure we talk about
that
okay great i've got that down we'll make
sure to cover that
right so now you've mutually agreed to
the process
for today's call the other reason why
it's so helpful to set an agenda up
front
is because in telling them the agenda
you're also going to tell them
what next steps typically look like yep
so you'll be like you know and we'll get
through all this and then
if we both feel like there's a fit
typically next steps
in these kinds of situations look like
blank
yep and you so you tease it out up front
which makes it really easy when you get
to the end of the call
to bring up next steps because then it's
just a callback at that point it's not
something new and i see so many reps
struggle with like
how do i how do i get a follow-up call
how do i figure out next steps how do i
not get ghosted or
not get left with like oh we'll talk
internally and get back to you
right if you bring it up up front then
all you do at the end is be like hey so
like
i feel like a fit there's a fit here i'm
thinking you do too and remember earlier
we said like if we feel like there's a
fit
a next step we blank i feel good about
moving that direction how about you
right and now it's just like it's easier
to to have that conversation at the end
of the call
i like it a few questions now a lot of
um
kind of sales trainers and such that
have been on the show kind of recommend
upfront contracting i do it in demos i
love it i'm a big fan of sandler
training are all about upfront contracts
um anyway that aside um
in terms of so you've laid out a really
good framework for us to kind of put and
play that regime
and kind of outlining what's going to
happen the time time of the
demo what you're going to go over and
then talking about next steps looks like
xyz
so i guess it's not a shock when you get
to the end of the end of the corner
saying look should we
move ahead and they're like whoa why are
you pressuring me um yeah
are we giving people an option to drop
out too
um so are we saying look next steps look
like xyz
um this is the process so this is what
we might do next but are we also
are we do you do this or do not
recommend doing the same look
if you don't feel this will fit at any
time then feel free to let me know
um and we can kind of keep in touch a
few future projects is that something
you recommend brewing at this stage or
would you still go ahead and add that
into it right like let them know hey if
if i'm if i'm feeling like it's probably
not a fit
i'll let you know and i'll do my best to
point you in the right direction if i
can
if you feel like it's not a fit you know
i'd rather you
you know you get your time back so just
tell me at any point if you're thinking
this isn't going in the direction that
you wanted
gotcha right give them that like opt out
essentially and that opt out also helps
lower their guard and it'll help make
discovery easier
yeah nice okay so that's the
that's the agenda up front and then what
what comes next sir
after the agenda you deliver so you like
all these points in this framework
you'd tell them in the agenda more or
less like you know you're not gonna say
hey i'm gonna give you my elevator pitch
then i'm gonna
you're gonna like be like you know what
i first want to do is just give you a
quick high-level overview of our
philosophy here and then i want to learn
more about you and then i can tell you
more about us essentially
um the good agenda framework is i just
call it gvg
give get give give them something first
get from them you know what you need to
in discovery that so that way you can
give them more
as opposed to taking right out of the
gate
so um the the the point of view
statement is next and this is something
that most companies don't even have
but they should and when i work with
companies it's something that we
we work on developing this is the
this is your opportunity and it's really
just like you know
10 seconds long maybe 15 seconds long
to let them know like what is your view
on the state of like the market or the
industry and where it should be going
your point of view is solely your own
actually like your company's point of
view right so not like
if you have multiple people in your team
selling they shouldn't each have their
own point of view it should be like one
company's point of view that they're
saying here
what you're trying to do at this point
is
give them an insight into how your
company thinks
give them an insight into the philosophy
your company holds more or less like the
why
of your company and so
it's a step towards right away
it is a step towards if you will like
indoctrinating them into like the
religion that is your brand
right because nobody else
can share your point of view right
other companies may have similar
features they may have
a software that does literally the exact
same thing
but they don't think about it the same
way your company does so if you can
architect that point of view statement
up front to let them know like what you
believe at your core
and where you believe the market should
be moving
now you're giving the buyer you're
giving the prospect like
a certain angle by which to like start
thinking things through
and it's your angle right have you got
an example of one regime
just so we can kind of think of
something tangible maybe a company
you've worked with and then you've said
look because you want to do this this
this is what the
point of view statement should be yeah
yeah so there's a company i've been
working with in the e-commerce space for
a while
and our point of view statement there is
let me think see if i can remember it
offhand it's something to the effect of
um you know everything we do day in and
day out is just a total obsession
with e-commerce we obsess over how do we
make sites easier
for shoppers to shop on uh or how do we
make sites uh
more easier for shoppers to shop on and
more flexible for
retailers on the back end to work with
and so we believe
at our core that every retailer should
be able to have
control over their website and without
that they're just
you know they're going to be running in
circles it's some variation on that
right so we deliver like hey we have
this obsession with it
and we believe in control we believe in
you having control
yeah nice and what's nice about that
is like so you deliver that point of
view statement and then you say
something like
i just want you to keep that in the back
of your mind
because like i i i want to learn about
your situation but i just want you to
keep that in the back of your mind
because like any question i
ask like that's the place that it's
coming from just so you're aware
right and so now you've like unlocked
like any type of question
that you could want to ask and discover
like it's all okay now
yeah sets the tone for the the rest of
the the meeting the cool i guess
quite nicely yeah exactly nice
and so that's the point of view
statement which tease up then
the discovery and i don't need to go
through discovery i will say there's
like a couple things that i think
a lot of companies can do better what i
like to say often is like
don't bant me and
i'm not saying don't figure out budget
authority need or timeline
what i'm saying is sam i'm sure this
happened to you before like where you've
been
you you're you're the pro you're the
buyer and it's very
clear that like they're going through
this list of like
okay are there any questions involved
yeah
tell me what your pain is what's your
take plan yeah your budget right it's
just like it's so
obvious that you're getting banted um
just you know be able to like do
discovery in a way that's more like
nuanced and feels natural and actually
feels like you're genuinely curious
about them
yeah and not just like you're you know
going through that 20 questions list
i completely agree completely agree and
we've got we've got plenty of episodes
there's one with benjamin denna here so
if you want to check more about
discovery and
qualifying prospects be sure to check
that one out we don't need to go into
that into too much depth
one question i do have though is how how
come discovery's almost halfway through
this process where a lot of kind of
processes start without asking questions
how come we've chosen to put that a bit
later in the in the steps
it's still pretty early on like
discovery will still start like five
minutes in roughly
because the first two steps are just
like you know agenda
and point of view takes like a minute
and a half combined
it doesn't take that long to get through
any of that stuff so discovery is still
like the largest chunk of the column
that is up front
it's just in this framework it happens
to be third but like time wise it's
it's you know it's still happening
really early on and i think companies
should spend the majority of the call
here
um i just and i and i will say as well
one of the things i often
uh coach teams on is like really being
able to
like go down the rabbit hole with
someone and like don't dig like five
holes
like find the hole and really just keep
digging and digging and digging there
and also understand you know sort of
like
in partnership or tangentially with that
also understand that in your discovery
process
you are trying to create a
figure out like what's the bigger
picture beyond just like the silo that
your software operates in
yeah so it's not just like
you know um
if a company is i don't know in like hr
or something like that
uh let's say it's like a uh performance
management software
yep it's not solely about like employee
reviews
it's about the bigger picture of like
what is their company culture what are
they trying to get their company culture
to look like
and feel like what kinds of employees do
they want to attract right so
so that way you can then kind of play
back to them
a story of like okay so if i'm
understanding this correctly
what you're telling me is that you've
got this big
initiative you're actually doing a
bigger rebrand
over the next year and you want that
rebrand to guide
the type of talent that's going to be
attracted to this company
and it actually feels like then that
this employee review stuff is kind of
the key to unlocking that because
when you want like when talent's coming
here they got to know that they're
taking care of them that it's in line
with the ultimate brand
that you've built am i am i on point
with that
right so now you've just attached your
software to like the larger
situation as opposed to just oh you want
better employee review software okay
why do you want that oh because your
performance views aren't good okay fine
hey we have an employee review software
yeah digging deeper getting to the root
cause i guess and problems and
like you say bigger picture is there
like i said i don't want to spend too
much time on scrubby however
what i would like to know is is there
one question you love to ask on every
discovery call that you think is the
killer
of all discovery questions because i've
got a couple myself but i'd like to know
yours
i don't know if i have like one killer
question i will say
um well maybe i do i i what i what i
often like to do and
and and work with come on is i just call
it qualifying agreement
so i think most sellers know to qualify
like
disagree or qualify pain right like
oh you know this is an issue tell me why
that's an issue right most of us know
how to do that
what most of us don't think about is can
you qualify
them agreeing with you like
or or them saying something positive and
basically get them to like like
temper their own response and see how
real it is
right like yeah so like you know
we really do want to get a solution in
place um
you know like it's it's a big priority
for us
really why
right like a and i all and part of that
is it all starts like bleeding into like
timeline stuff too
so so kind of you come to your point
here on like
good questions i like to ask timeline
there are two distinct timelines there's
the timeline that got you
here and the timeline that gets you
there
so i always like to ask and have teams
ask
hey i'm just curious how come we're
having this conversation today and we
didn't have it like two months ago
or you know we're not having it like two
months from now yeah
because now they're gonna tell you what
led up to today
and why it's so important yeah and then
you can be like okay and when do you
want to have this live buy
and they'll tell you and then it's like
all right so um can you just tell me
like what happens then
if you you know if you don't go live by
october 1st what happens then
and now you're getting all right so
that's like kind of like another
qualifying agreement
right you're getting them to prove to
you that what they just said is real
and not fluff or maybe it is fluff and
you're like and then you'll be able to
forecast better
yeah yeah it's like october 1st but you
know if it gets to like november
mid-november
it doesn't seem like it's too much of an
issue okay got it and do you find
rajiv if when you ask one of those
trigger questions like
you're asking a trigger event question
like why now why not six months
before why not next year why don't you
just hold off for 18 months again
if they're just like if they don't give
a compelling reason
if they don't say well we have to hit
this deadline because if we don't we're
not going to hit our number for the
quota
or i have to do this otherwise we're
going to lose 10 stuff members jobs or
i'm going to lose my job if there's not
a compelling reason or
something like that and the buyer's just
like well it doesn't really matter i
could do it now
could do next year my ceo said to look
at it
if they're not that fast do you find
they often buy
if you're lucky if you get really lucky
they still buy but if they don't have a
real reason
behind you know if they're and i think
the cool thing too is it gives
you as the you know purveyor of the soft
you as the demo er as this as the seller
it gives you some ground to stand on to
be like
okay where what should i do next in this
call is it worth continuing to pursue or
should i be like okay you know what
it looks like you're just kind of like
you know trying to get some ideas right
now so i don't know
here's a couple things let me just show
you real quick and then you know you you
can like wrap up in the next five
minutes from there
yeah like i like like if i'm wrong let
me know
but yeah i'm just getting a sense that
you're just trying to get some ideas
right now and maybe not don't
necessarily go like too deep into this
that's a really good response you're
almost pushing back on
the prospect the buyer to say look is do
you really need to do this right now
i guess if they start pushing back on
you then you know you've got a qualified
buyer as if they're like just like meh
just show me the features then you're
like
possibly possibly not somebody's ready
to do business right now good stuff
okay so discovery job done what's what's
next on the
on the agenda so you get to the end of
discovery which now you're ready to like
so
in the give get give you've you've now
you've gotten so now you're ready to
give again
and you're ready to talk about your
company first
so what you do right off discovery is
give your company's elevator
pitch this is different than the point
of view statement this is your core
value proposition wrapped up in 30 to 60
seconds
now the formula i developed several
years ago for this that works time and
time again with companies
i call it que pasa which you know you're
in the uk i don't know if you know any
spanish
uh are you familiar with any spanish
that you would know what que pasa means
no i don't unfortunately have very
little spelling
okay so the spelling of it in spanish is
q-u-e
space p-a-s-a que pasa okay and in
spanish what that means is what's up or
what's happening
it's like a you know it's a greeting
you'd be like
a friend que pasa migo that kind of
thing
so the que pasa elevator pitch formula
um
that i figured out a few years ago is
you know i'm always like you just got to
tell people what's up with your business
all right that's what an elevator pitch
is you're telling them what's up
p-a-s-a problem approach solution
action problem approach solution action
deliver your core value prop through
that framework problem approach solution
action
problem use problem that exists in the
market that your company addresses
your approach to that approach is like
your your brand promise
uh solution is the what it's the how
it's like the you know it's you
essentially backing up the promise
and then action is the call to action
which in this case would be
um essentially being like
does that give you a pretty good
understanding at least at a high level
yeah okay now let me tell you more about
how that all comes together
which gets you to the next part which is
uh
you know my recommendation is a slide
deck
and this is a really really like
controversial topic because some people
are like
on you know team never slides hashtag
ditch the deck all that kind of stuff
yep and gong even you know recently
released some data showing that like
win rates drop when a deck is used on a
discovery
call now i'll tell you
companies i work with our win rates go
up when we use the deck
and i think the reason the industry stat
or the overall stat is that win rates
drop is because
most presentations are terrible
and like the ones you've experienced
before that you said
they are capabilities decks right yeah
yes it's the product broken out
on slides that just talk through
features or like slide one will be like
here's our headquarters and here's our
client roster here's our executive
leadership
right here's our product here's ten more
how many awards we've won
yeah this is our face oh my god yeah
we've won 20 webby awards in the last 20
years all that stuff
so that's no good what you want is a
is a narrative driven sales deck
you want a presentation that paints a
picture
of change right that
tells a story about why it's important
to do something
and that because you've so you know
you've so well like painted this picture
of why it's important to do something
that your company is the logical
purveyor of something your company is
the logical purveyor of change
and so whenever and and so whenever i
build out
uh presentations for companies the one
thing that they can't wrap their head
around that
once they initially can't wrap their
head around i'm like just trust me
it'll work is
the first 50 plus of the presentation
we have not even like mentioned their
product
or really their company the first 50
to 70 is building the situation
so that way you can then say well that's
what we provide here
and then it just feels like the again
you feel you're the logical purveyor of
change at that point
gotcha so how does that so we've done
our discovery
session so i guess we understand kind of
the problems or the pain points that
they've
the prospects experiencing and we've
kind of agreed it's something that we
can
discuss further and potentially help
with how does that
lay into this slide demo deck that we're
putting together and
kind of 50 to 70 percent you just
mentioned before we even mention our
product
and we kind of paint a picture and start
roughly what does that that look like
so what you're doing in that first half
of that deck is like you're like you're
building up the reason for change which
includes talking about like market
forces currently at play
and it includes common challenges you
hear
given your experience right so what you
what you're able to do during this is
weave in the things that they said
previously on the call gotcha right so
it just requires
the slightest bit of talent in being
able to like
reference something you heard in the
last 20 minutes
right and to just be like you know and
this is this is really similar to what
you were telling me before
right um though you know what you're
accomplishing with that deck
is you're trying to gauge their level of
emotional buy-in
and if they're emotionally bought in
everything else becomes so much easier
and you're also trying to give them an
easier way
to understand an easier way to like
frame your product
in like in their mind and if you can do
that effectively like
the the technique we always use is we
try to figure out whenever possible we
try to figure out what's
a analogous scenario or an analogous
situation
we can come up with to then say well
that's actually exactly what's
like what's happening in the industry
today right
that if you can come up with that clean
analogy that makes sense
it becomes so much easier especially if
you have a multi-stakeholder deal
it becomes so much easier for them to
explain internally what your company
does
and they can even just grab your slide
deck and be like oh do you know how like
you know how like this like this netflix
stuff works it's just like netflix
right okay
and it's the this is probably uh it
depends
answer but is there a um from your
experience a set amount of slides
because like we alluded to at the start
there's presentations that just seem to
drag on and on and on
from your experience is there like keep
to this slide's maximum
try and keep this section of the demon
demo within kind of x
x amount of minutes roughly um yeah
you know i don't ever think about like
is it
too many slides because i always look at
like the number of slides that's
it it should be as many slides necessary
to tell a clean and concise and
compelling story
so you know like i've worked on
presentations that are like 25 slides
long but guess what
some of the slides you flip through in
like half a second right it's just like
a big picture with one word on it
um i think you know and there's been
other ones that have been like 12 slides
long so
i just think the key is you got to be
like engaging you got to like talk it's
got to be a dialogue it can't just be a
one-way monologue throughout you got to
be asking them questions getting them to
relate to it throughout
and you want it to probably be like i'd
say somewhere around like
10 to 15 minutes of time in total
yep okay that's fine and then
is there a from your experience a good
time to introduce
product and to then or to i guess to
link in
from that story telling part to the
product itself or your offering
and then to pricing and then to kind of
final steps
yeah so you'd come off that like the end
of that deck is like talking about the
product
and then you know the success stories
you have all that kind of stuff and then
you use that to
again so now if they're emotionally
bought in now
the actual demo right the showing of the
software
is now just it's more like a visual
wrapper or a visual reinforcement
as opposed to having to like prove to
them your worth by showing them the
software
which makes it really easy and you don't
have to show as much right you can spend
five to ten minutes here
showing them the software instead of
spending 30 minutes showing them the
software
and the technique whenever possible that
should be employed and i say whenever
possible because
this technique will
typically only works if there's like
multiple users
of the product so let's say like in the
let's say it's a payroll software you
have like your admin
tool but then there's like what the
employees would see right
yep which is going to be different than
the admin tool
so i called it so anytime you have like
that scenario where there's like a back
end user
and a front end user you want to employ
what i just called the reverse demo
technique
which is don't lead with the back end
don't lead with the dashboard nobody
ever said oh my god did you see that
admin panel
we have got to buy from them right
um instead lead with the end
user experience make yourself
turn yourself into the end user of that
product
and walk through what it's like to have
the experience being the end user
when you do that you are automatically
communicating through
benefits and results and then you have
to be like
and the best part is to make it all
happen on the back end
it's really just a few clicks here look
you just do this this and this
right and then you've communicated all
the value of your software without
having to get into every last button
and you know what if they do have a
specific technical question
of course field that but you don't have
to lead with that by any means
people want to know that what they're
buying is not going to confuse them
yeah so tomato in order to make your
software seem as simple as possible
and easy to use as possible show them
what it's like to be the end
user of like their that new product that
they could have
or that new world they could have
awesome awesome man just to take a step
back
you mentioned that you need to ensure
that your prospect your potential buyers
got emotional buy-in
is there any waste whilst we're doing
this whilst we're doing this full demo
from start to end that we can gauge
how emotionally bought in our
prospective customers actually are is
there anything we can do rajiv
yeah so a couple things
one way to do that is by
throughout the throughout the once you
get into like the presentation and then
the demo
is look to secure micro agreements
so get them to say
does this resonate with you yes not get
them like ask them and if they genuinely
say yes
great but then that's where you also
want to qualify the agreement and be
like
okay tell me why right get them to prove
to you
that the answer they just gave you is
legitimate right
that's one way to approach it yeah the
other way
is or that i i really like employing
this technique and again
it's something that and this is
specifically related to the presentation
itself
it's really funny because like every
company that i've worked with where we
build a zac
they have so much like
fear and like they freak out that this
slide exists
but i always put in a i call it like the
the choose your path slide where you
literally like you like you lay out the
terms of like hey here's where things
are moving here's some of the challenges
in the market
and then you have a slide that's
literally like so what do you want to do
about it
do you want to do things the old way
quote unquote
or pursue the new way and i'm telling
you 100
of my customers freak out at the idea of
using this slide they're like why would
we give them an out why would we tell
them they don't have to do this right
or or why are we even or the other the
other argument is why are we even asking
them of course they should right
yeah and it's like yeah of course they
should but what you're doing is making
them verbalize
yes the path you have laid forward is
the path we want to explore i'm not
saying they're going to buy from you in
that moment
they're just saying yes this is the path
we want to keep pursuing we want to keep
exploring this
yeah and i'll tell you 100 of my
customers freak out at it
and then they use it and it works 99.8
percent of the time
i love this kind of stuff um i guess
if you bring it up be a prospect as well
it's kind of getting them to verbalize
if they're if it actually makes sense
and if they're actually
if they're actually happy to embrace the
change that your product can give
and if they don't then you have like
grounds like pause everything right
there and be okay we have to talk
through that
tell me what's on your mind at this
point right
nice okay so with that said
i think we've covered a fair fair amount
of ground um
how do we look i mean this do we look to
wrap up now do we look to present
pricing and
next steps or what's what do we do
towards the end of this demo rajiv
your next steps are
crucial to this whole you know framework
this whole equation if you will
you cannot leave the call not knowing
what's happening next you've got to
create some momentum in the deal
you've got to have a path forward
the way i typically see
salespeople founders reps et cetera do
this wrong
is they will get to the end and they'll
be like okay great
so you know it seems like it seems like
you feel like this is a good fit tell me
like
uh what are next steps for you let me
just ask the buyer
what are the next steps for you
the reason why this is a problem
question is because
you i put it
the buyer does not know in that moment
typically does not know in that moment
all the things that are involved
in their own buying process they're just
not thinking about it like
as clearly as they should also
you're leaving it up to them to tell you
how the
how to buy your software that you're an
expert in selling
right now see you're nodding so i'm sure
like this is stuff that you know
you like vibe with as well and you've
been able to like successfully employ
so it's
yeah you don't want to you don't want to
put it in their lap because you know
what's going to happen 90
of the time is they'll say we'll talk
internally and get back to you
and then you lose all momentum not
saying you'll never close a deal
but most of the time what will happen
is they will be like we'll talk
internally get back to you
and be like oh how's the weak zone yeah
it sounds great
and then two weeks go by and then a
month
and then you know two months and they've
ghosted you
or they're just like ah you know what
actually like you know we have we have
other priorities that have come up
we'll we'll address this later yeah
right exactly yeah right you lose all
power you lose all leverage you lose
all the momentum that you generate you
know why because the second
they may give you all the micro
agreements all the affirmations all the
buying signals in that call
but the second that call ends guess what
life hits them in the face again
they go back to the browser tab and they
see they have 40 unread emails that
happened
during the time that the call took place
and all these other things take up their
headspace again
so you immediately get de-prioritized
so you wanna you gotta do your part to
make yourself the priority and you have
to know that you have more control over
the buying process than you think you do
so if you do the agenda right up front
then it's really easy to bring up the
next steps hey you know i mentioned
earlier this
so uh you know we said typically next
steps are
such and such let's go ahead and plan
that out now
and what you want to do is not only say
like what should happen immediately next
you know let's say it's like a a
technical call an implementation call
whatever it might be
you want to also map out for them like
what's the next step and then what are
the what are the
whatever it is the next two to five
steps it takes depending on your sales
process
that lead to a purchase yep is what
you're doing for those who are on video
who can see this
you're saying you know i've got my hand
out with all five fingers here
right you're saying hey here's what it
takes to buy our software
and then you're trying to find out and
then you ask like how does that align
with with how you like to purchase
things how does that align with your
decision making process
so you give them a framework to respond
to
as opposed to an open-ended what are
your next steps you tell them your steps
to
force it for selling to then so they can
start to think critically through
what are our steps to buying and all
those little things they forgot that
comes out now because they understand
like you know the sequence
and so you're trying to figure out are
they here
are they here excuse me are they here
are they here
or are they here and so what i just put
my hands for those who were just on
audio
it was like are the hands totally apart
are they sort of interlacing or are they
perfectly interlocked again
now you have an idea of what's going to
you have a real idea of what's going to
happen next and you can put yourself in
the center of
all of that and if it's you know if it's
a
complete lack of alignment or a slight
misalignment you know what to do to get
yourselves on the same page gotcha
so let me just throw out two scenarios
to wrap things up with here rajiv
so i like how it links to kind of the
upfront agenda we set at the start
saying look this is the next
next steps with us typically it looks
like we do xyz
and that'll mean that we move forward
because this is how we work
we're linking it back at the end um if
we've got let's say a product that's
quite a fast cell cycle we can actually
close the deal there and then
what strategy should we implement if we
don't need to do kind of extra steps
whereas if we on the flip side if we've
got maybe we're in a more complex
kind of selling process and we're
dealing with the enterprise in our sales
solution maybe take six to 12 months to
typically close a deal um if they bring
up issues how do we attack that looking
at both spectrums before we close this
out
yeah it's actually this is funny you
asked this this literally just came up
yesterday
um one of my clients
their apac team is doing what is able to
do one call like us is totally different
but in a pack it's like a one-call
close and i'm like okay there's no need
to confuse the situation more
by by adding in extra layers here right
so in those cases and you and you'll
tend to know you'll find i know like the
buying patterns are
just like going through it a few times
so you'll know like what to say next
step should be up front
right and in that case your agenda at
the beginning you'd be like you know
hey typically we come out of these calls
like and people have a pretty good idea
of what they want to do so i want to
make sure that
you have you have direction and if you
feel good about making that decision
we can start putting together you know
the the contract or whatever it might be
and you know ideally get you launched
very quickly from there right so that
like
don't don't confuse the situation more
if you don't have to
and if you're worried about hey maybe
you said you know
typically a next step is we do another
call but then they're ready to buy at
the end of the call you can be like
hey you know earlier i mentioned a next
step is
doing another call seems like you
already have everything you need at this
point and
like if you feel like you're ready to
just move forward let's go ahead and do
that
i don't necessarily want to have to like
take time away from other resources at
your company if we don't have to
all right so you always have like you
always have flexibility
all of these things i'm saying they're
just giving you
i think i had to use the word earlier
they're just giving like guard rails to
stay within
or to work off of
muting myself i like the fact that you
um yeah it's
the the crux of it is keeping it keeping
it simple keeping it clear
not confusing yourself or the buyer just
letting them know kind of exactly what
what could happen next and see if that
resonates and and move from there really
so um with that rajiv i think that's a
great way to
to wrap it up thanks very much for
coming on really enjoyed the chat really
enjoyed the conversation i found it
really valuable i'm sure everyone tuning
in has two
so please do tell us more about how we
can learn more from you how we can
connect with you
and the best way to get in touch sounds
like you're asking what are my next
steps from here
my next steps coming out of this show um
you know
if any of this stuff sounds interesting
to you would love to talk with you more
about it so you can find me online
um startuphypeman.com is the website um
i've got a podcast
myself where we talk with uh ceos on
different growth strategies just type in
startup hype man on your podcast player
it'll show up
and then uh you know one of the things
we talked about during in this demo
framework today
was uh that elevator pitch right the que
pasa elevator pitch formula
um i've actually got a pretty easy to
follow like four step
guide that maps out in more detail you
know we only got to talk about it very
quickly today but i've got a
really easy to follow guide that maps it
out in more detail
including examples of que pasa elevator
pitches and how to create your own
uh there's a video in there as well that
you can watch that talks through it all
and i think that'll be really helpful
especially people who were listening and
wanted to dig in deeper to that or if
you were listening and
you know maybe you're a normal podcast
listener and you don't like
allocate time out of your day to do
nothing but listen to a podcast like
maybe you're cooking dinner
while listening to this or maybe you
were you know shopping at the grocery
store or at the gym or something like
that
so if you want to sit if you want to
really like understand that part of the
material
i've just put together a link for your
audience sam so it's
startuphypeman.com slash sam
hyphen dunning startup hypeman.com
sam hyphen dunning awesome man we'll put
all of those links over in the show
notes at business
growth dot marketing and with that i
want to thank you once again for coming
on rasheed
appreciate you having me thank you for
the time no worries dude if you enjoyed
the show as always be sure to hit
subscribe we interview business leaders
each and every week to provide
actionable
tips across marketing across sales or
the idea
to help you grow your business and grow
your sales revenue and with that
we shall catch you on the next episode